[Zaraz] Behavioral triggers, multiple triggers and Zaraz script (#3251)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/zaraz/src/content/get-started/create-trigger.md

pcx-content-type: how-to
---

> # Triggers

Reviewer: The conceptual and configuration information in this topic seems to be growing... Consider moving these sections (large introduction and "Rule types") to a different page, and keep the actionable instructions in this one. It would be a strong argument for still considering this topic a `how-to` and for putting it under "Get started".

Triggers are a set of conditions that determine if and when Cloudflare Zaraz should [send events to third-party tools](/get-started/send-events). In most cases, your objective will be to capture specific site actions that are relevant to your business. A trigger will usually be based on an action the end user has taken on your website, like clicking a button.

These site actions can be passed to Cloudflare Zaraz in a number of ways. You can use the Events API or the `dataLayer` to send them to specific events and tools. Refer to [Events API](/events-api) and [Data layer compatibility mode](/datalayer-compatibility) for more information on how to implement these options.

You can also use complex triggers to listen for these site actions, with different types of rules like Click Listeners or Form Submissions.

> For most tools, the trigger will be a simple pageview event type, for which Cloudflare Zaraz offers a `pageview` preset configuration. If this is the case for the tool you need, just [add and configure the tool to your account](/get-started/add-tool) to get started. For example, with the Facebook Pixel tool you only need to enter your account ID and access token, and Zaraz will configure the page view trigger for you.

Reviewer: Should the first "pageview" occurrence have some sort of formatting? Or should it be "page view" (two words)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most tools, the trigger will be a simple pageview event type, for which Cloudflare Zaraz offers a `pageview` preset configuration. If this is the case for the tool you need, [add and configure the tool to your account](/get-started/add-tool) to get started. For example, with the Facebook Pixel tool you only need to enter your account ID and access token, and Zaraz will configure the page view trigger for you.
```

> A valid trigger has a structure as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A valid trigger has the following structure:
```

```txt

> <rule type> <variable name> <comparison operator> <string to match>

Reviewer: I'd use underscores to separate words in placeholders as we do for `curl` commands, e.g., `<rule_type>` or even `<RULE_TYPE>`.

```

The exact composition of the trigger will change depending on the type of rule you choose. Here is an example for a trigger based on a Match rule:

<TableWrap>

Rule type | Variable name | Match operation | Match string
---       | ---           | ---             | ---
_Match rule_ | `{{ client.__zarazTrack }}` |  _Contains_ | `purchase`

</TableWrap>

> Refer to [Rule types](#rule-types) for more information on the types of rules available, and [Zaraz event and system properties](/properties-reference), for more information on the variables you can use to create triggers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Rule types](#rule-types) for more information on the types of rules available, and [Zaraz event and system properties](/properties-reference) for more information on the variables you can use to create triggers. 
```

## Create a trigger

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login), and select your account and website. 

1. Go to **Zaraz**.

1. In **Triggers**, select **Create trigger**. 

1. In **Trigger Name** enter a descriptive name for your trigger.

1. In **Rule type**, choose from the actions available in the drop-down menu to start building your rule.

> 1. In **Variable name**, input the variable you want as the trigger. For example, `{{ client.__zarazTrack }}` is the variable you should employ when [`zaraz.track()` is used in your website](/events-api).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **Variable name**, input the variable you want as the trigger. For example, use the `{{ client.__zarazTrack }}` variable if you are [using `zaraz.track()` in your website](/events-api).
```

1. Use the **Match operation** drop-down list to choose a comparison operator. For an expression to match, the value in **Variable name** and **Match string** must satisfy the comparison operator.

> 1. In **Match string** input the string that completes the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **Match string**, input the string that completes the rule.
```

1. You can add more than one rule to your trigger. Click **Add rule** and repeat steps 5-8 to add another set of rules and conditions. If you add more than one rule, your trigger will only be valid when all conditions are true.

1. Click **Save**. 

Your trigger is now complete. If you go back to the main page you will see it listed under **Triggers**, as well as which tools use it. You can also **Edit** or **Delete** your trigger.

## Rule types

> The rule type determines the kind of conditions Zaraz should listen for in your web page. Zaraz supports different rule types which allow for the creation of complex rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rule type determines the kind of conditions Zaraz should listen for in your web page. Zaraz supports different rule types which allow you to create complex rules.
```

`AND` |
<strong>Rule type</strong> | <strong>Variable name</strong> | <strong>Match operation</strong> | <strong>Match string</strong>
_Match rule_ | `{{ system.page.url.pathname }}` | _Contains_ | `/my-page-path`

</TableWrap>

Refer to [**Create a trigger**](#create-a-trigger) to add more than one condition to a trigger.

---

**Trigger example for XPath:**

<TableWrap>

Rule type | Type | Selector | Wait for events
--- | --- | --- | ---
_Click listener_ | _XPath_ | `/html/body//*[contains(text(), 'Add To Cart')]` | `500`

</TableWrap>

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Form submission</summary>
<div>

Tracks form submissions using CSS selectors. Click the **Validate** toggle button to only fire the trigger when the form has no validation errors.

**Trigger example:**

<TableWrap>

Rule type | CSS Selector | Validate
--- | --- | --- 
_Form submission_ | `#my-form` | Toggle on or off

</TableWrap>

To improve the performance of the web page, you can limit a Form submission trigger to a specific URL, by combining it with a Match rule. For example, to track a form on a specific page you can set up the following trigger:

<TableWrap>

Rule type | CSS Selector | Validate

> --- | --- | --- | ---

Reviewer: Not sure if this table has 3 or 4 columns. Also the row with `AND` looks quite odd... I'd use HTML if it's getting to complex to understand and maintain using Markdown.

_Form submission_ | `#my-form` | Toggle on or off
`AND` |
<strong>Rule type</strong> | <strong>Variable name</strong> | <strong>Match operation</strong> | <strong>Match string</strong>
_Match rule_ | `{{ system.page.url.pathname }}` | _Contains_ | `/my-page-path`

</TableWrap>

Refer to [**Create a trigger**](#create-a-trigger) to add more than one condition to a trigger.

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Timer</summary>
<div>

Set up an interval of time in milliseconds before activating the trigger in **Interval**. In **Limit** specify the number of times the trigger will fire before stopping. If you do not specify a limit, the timer will run every ten seconds.

**Trigger example:**

<TableWrap>

Rule type | Interval | Limit
--- | --- | --- 
_Timer_ | `50` | `2`

</TableWrap>

To improve the performance of the web page, you can limit a Timer trigger to a specific URL, by combining it with a Match rule. For example, to set up a timer on a specific page you can set up the following trigger:

<TableWrap>

Rule type | Interval | Limit

> --- | --- | --- | ---

Reviewer: Again, not sure if this table has 3 or 4 columns.

_Timer_ | `50` | `2` |
`AND` |

> <strong>Rule type</strong> | <strong>Variable name</strong> | <strong>Match operation</strong> | <strong>Match string</strong>

Reviewer: This row doesn't seem correct. You have 4 columns here but the table only has 3 headings (line 182) — even though line 183 seems to indicate 4 columns again.

If you are having troubles with the table formatting in Markdown, I'd rather use HTML for it than to make it very complex to understand and maintain.

_Match rule_ | `{{ system.page.url.pathname }}` | `Contains` | `/my-page-path`

</TableWrap>

> Refer to [**Create a trigger**](#create-a-trigger) to add more than one condition to a trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [**Create a trigger**](#create-a-trigger) for details on adding more than one condition to a trigger.
```

</div>
</details>

> ## Blocking Triggers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Blocking Trigger
```
I'd use a verb because there's a procedure and this page is essentially a how-to guide.
